Two years ago Sunday, then-presidential candidate Donald Trump derided US
District Court Judge Gonzalo Curiel, hearing a lawsuit against Trump
University, for his "Mexican" heritage and complained of being "railroaded" by
the legal system.  It was shocking, Democrats and Republicans alike condemned
Trump's racially intemperate criticism of the Indiana-born judge. Turns out, it
was nothing. Over the past 24 months, Trump has scorned judges, derided the
American court system, and trampled on all manner of constitutional principles.
Trump has especially ridiculed due process of law, the bedrock against
government's arbitrary denial of a person's life, liberty or property. Critics
warn that denunciations that once seemed so aberrational may be seeping into
the American psyche and influencing how government operates. This week, Trump
suggested immigrants at the border could be summarily deported without any
hearing to determine if they deserved asylum or were US citizens wrongly
apprehended. In a Fox News interview that aired on Thursday, Trump flatly
deemed the system of immigration judges "corrupt" and said, "Whoever heard of a
system where you put people through trials? Where do these judges come from?"
The administrative system, in fact, is part of Trump's executive branch, run by
the Justice Department; the attorney general appoints immigration judges.
Trump calls for sweeping changes to US immigration legal process In the same
interview, Trump responded to the NFL policy prohibiting kneeling during the
"Star-Spangled Banner," with a message for players who refuse to stand for the
anthem: "Maybe you shouldn't be in the country." Such an attitude inflames
controversy over league rules for players protesting racial injustice to
intimations of government rejection of its citizens - for speaking out. Due
Process. Citizenship. Racial Equality. Trump's targets seem to merit none of
these. It is not lost on Trump's detractors that he routinely takes aim at
immigrants and racial minorities. At the same time, the President expresses
outrage over what happens to the men of his world. When his former staff
secretary Rob Porter was accused by two ex-wives of domestic violence, Trump
emphasized in February to the news media, "He says he's innocent." Then in a
tweet, Trump wrote: "Peoples lives are being shattered and destroyed by a mere
allegation. Some are true and some are false. Some are old and some are new.
There is no recovery for someone falsely accused - life and career are gone. Is
there no such thing any longer as Due Process?"  Peoples lives are being
shattered and destroyed by a mere allegation. Some are true and some are false.
Some are old and some are new. There is no recovery for someone falsely accused
- life and career are gone. Is there no such thing any longer as Due Process?
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 10, 2018 In April, Trump referred
to an FBI raid on the home and office of Trump's personal lawyer Michael Cohen,
executing a court-approved subpoena, as "an attack on our country ... an attack
on what we all stand for." If Trump's norm-shattering derision of the courts
and constitutional principles has only accelerated in the past two years,
public responses appear more polarized. Opponents are overwhelmingly
Democratic. Trump's approval rating among Republicans remains high. There also
may be fatigue. Trump is constant. His questioning Thursday of a legal process
for people apprehended at the border drew scant public response. Long before he
was a candidate, Trump was known for complaints about the justice system and
incendiary rhetoric. He railed against five black and Latino men accused (and
wrongfully convicted) for a 1989 rape of a jogger in New York's Central Park.
Trump bought full-page ads in New York newspapers proclaiming, "Bring Back The
Death Penalty. Bring Back Our Police." Even after the men were exonerated, he
suggested they were guilty.  Central Park Five exonerees slam Trump's 'due
process' remark The difference now, of course, is that he is America's top
leader. So last fall, when he tweeted that an Uzbekistan man who was charged
with killing eight pedestrians and bikers in New York City "SHOULD GET THE
DEATH PENALTY," some law professors and analysts wondered if the President's
comments would hurt the government's legal case. Trump sets a tone for the
whole country - a reality that spurred Republican op-ed columnist Michael
Gerson, a former aide to President George W. Bush, to pen a scathing assessment
earlier this month. "Whatever else Trumpism may be," Gerson wrote in The
Washington Post, "it is the systematic organization of resentment against
outgroups. His record is rich in dehumanization. ... This is more than a
disturbing pattern; it is an organizing political principle. And it has
resulted in a series of radiating consequences." Play Video  NFL player:
Trump's anthem remarks unpatriotic 01:13 As one of many examples, Gerson
pointed to West Virginia GOP Senate candidate Don Blankenship's statement that
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell was creating jobs for "China people."
(His wife, Elaine Chao, was born in Taiwan.)  Trump: NFL players who don't
stand during National Anthem maybe 'shouldn't be in the country' "The Trump era
is a renaissance of half-witted intolerance," Gerson concluded, urging
Republican leaders to challenge Trump. (The President endorsed one of
Blankenship's opponents and Blankenship lost the primary.) If such protests
from the right are rare, the left has tried to remain energized. The stream of
Trump rhetoric against due process "is exhausting, yet requires us to remain
vigilant," said Vanita Gupta, president of the Leadership Conference on Civil
and Human Rights. Gupta said an overriding concern is that dehumanizing
language and attacks on minorities influence administration policy "The daily
hits to due process are real and it is dangerous for any of us to accept this
as normal," she said. Irrespective of how responses have evolved over the past
two years, Trump has not deviated from his personal script. As he declared in
May 2016, when many of his comments were rallying fans and roiling critics,
"You think I'm going to change? I'm not changing."
